Add best practices for components with CRDs (#149)
projectsyn/documentation: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/explanations/commodore-components/crds.adoc

= Installing CRDs in Commodore components

Commodore components may introduce new custom resources, and should do so when installing operators that depend on them.
A component needs to be careful that the provided CRDs are always compatible with the installed operator.

One needs to take special considerations when support for a CRD version is dropped.

> When this happens all existing objects https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definition-versioning/#upgrade-existing-objects-to-a-new-stored-version[need to be upgraded to a new stored version.]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this happens all existing objects https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definition-versioning/#upgrade-existing-objects-to-a-new-stored-version[need to be upgraded to a new stored version].
```

This is often not considered a breaking change by the upstream project.

> The component needs to either handle this stored version upgrade in a job or treat such an update as a breaking change and provide an upgrade guide to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component needs to either handle this stored version upgrade in a job or treat such an update as a breaking change and provide an upgrade guide for migrating existing objects.
```

> It's considered best practice to provide ClusteRoles that https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#aggregated-clusterroles[are aggregated] to the `view`,  `edit`, `admin`, and if applicable `cluster-reader` ClusteRole.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's considered best practice to provide ClusterRoles that https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#aggregated-clusterroles[are aggregated] to the `view`,  `edit`, `admin`, and if applicable `cluster-reader` ClusteRole.
```

> This is done by setting the label `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-<role>` on the provided ClusteRoles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done by setting the label `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-<role>` on the provided ClusterRoles.
```

As the names suggest you should:

* Add get, list, and watch permissions for all namespaced custom resources to `view`
* Add create, update, and delete permissions for all namespaced custom resources to `edit`
* Add permissions for sensitive custom resources to `admin`

> * Add get, list, and watch permissions for all cluster scoped custom resources to `cluster-reader`

Reviewer: Shouldn't `get`, `list` and `watch` permissions for namespace-scoped resources also be added to `cluster-reader`? Or is this done by aggregating `view` to `cluster-reader`?

Author: `cluster-reader` also aggregates anything with `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-view: "true"`. I did not find a clear best practice for this (or really any useful documentation..)

== Example

> In this example we look at a component that installs two custom reasource definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we look at a component that installs two custom resource definitions:
```

> The namespaced `foos.foo.example.com` resource, and the cluster-wide `clusterfoos.foo.example.com` resource.

Reviewer: This isn't a full sentence (no verb) -> either use my suggestion of adding a colon instead of a period in the line above it (that fixes the issue), or reword it somehow.

> To provide a good user experience the component installs the following three clusterroles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide a good user experience the component installs the following three ClusterRoles.
```

Still not sure what's best practice for capitalizing words like ClusterRoles, but we should try to be consistent within a single page at least.

[source,yaml]
----
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  labels:
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-admin: "true"
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-edit: "true"
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-view: "true"
  name: foo-view <1>
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - foo.example.com
  resources:
  - foos
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  labels:
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-admin: "true" <2>
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-edit: "true"
  name: foo-edit
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - foo.example.com
  resources:
  - foos
  verbs:
  - create
  - delete
  - deletecollection
  - patch
  - update
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  labels:

>     rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-cluster-reader <3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-cluster-reader: "true" <3>
```
